Added subpocket based docking kinases project (#136)
volkamerlab/volkamerlab_org: content/projects/kinfraglib_pocket_enum.md

---
title: "Novel Kinase Ligand Generation using Subpocket-Based Docking"
date: 2023-05-05
nav: false
weight: 10
# Uncomment sections below to enable them in your project
#external_resources:
#- name: KinFragLib_PocketEnum Repository
#  link: https://github.com/volkamerlab/KinFragLib_PocketEnum
#  icon: github
people:
- key: katharina.buchthal
- key: paula.kramer
- key: andrea.volkamer
---

> The majority of signal transduction in eukaryotic cells is mediated by protein kinases, whereas dysregulation is often associated with cancer. Fragment-based drug design strategies have already shown promising results for developing novel kinase inhibitors. Typically, these approaches consider the structural information about the target but do not take the kinase-specific prior knowledge into account, although the kinase binding pocket is highly conserved and well-studied.

Reviewer: > Typically, these approaches consider the structural information about the target but do not take the kinase-specific prior knowledge into account, although the kinase binding pocket is highly conserved and well-studied.

Try to rephrase the sentence to ensure that it is clear that we also use only information from ligand site, i.e. KinFragLib fragments

<!--more-->

> This project aims to generate ligands for a given kinase structure  in silico  in a fragment-based manner, using KinFragLib, a kinase-specific fragment library.  By letting a ligand grow within the binding pocket using docking, a greedy search was performed to reduce the enormous space of fragment combinations. Thereby, we guide the search, using the information on functionally relevant subpockets, such that we only place specific fragments into specific regions of the binding pocket. Accordingly, we efficiently generate ligands for kinases utilizing the structural and functional information about the binding pocket. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project aims to generate ligands for a given kinase structure _in silico_  in a fragment-based manner, using KinFragLib, a kinase-specific fragment library.  By letting a ligand grow within the binding pocket using docking using SeeSAR, a greedy search can be performed to reduce the enormous space of fragment combinations. Thereby, we guide the search, using the information on functionally relevant subpockets, such that we only place fragments into specific regions of the binding pocket. Accordingly, we efficiently generate ligands for kinases utilizing the structural and functional information about the binding pocket. 
```
